# Discover
Discovery is the ability of an intelligent system to learn from data without upfront human intervention. Often, this needs to be done without being presented with an explicit target. It relies on the use of unsupervised and semi-supervised machine learning techniques (such as segmentation, dimensionality reduction, anomaly detection and more), as well as more supervised techniques where there is an outcome or there are several outcomes of interest.  Usually, in enterprise software, the term discovery refers to the ability of ETL/MDM solutions to discover the various schemas of tables in large databases and automatically find, join keys etc. This is not what we mean by discovery. We use the term very differently and has important implications.  In complex datasets, it is nearly impossible to ask the “right” questions. To discover what value lies within the data, one must understand all the relationships that are inherent and important in the data. That requires a principled approach to hypothesis generation.  One technique, topological data analysis (TDA), is exceptional at surfacing hidden relationships that exist in the data and identifying those relationships that are meaningful without having to ask specific questions of the data. The result is an output that is able to represent complex phenomena, and is therefore able to surface weaker signals as well as the stronger signals.  This permits the detection of emergent phenomena. As a result, enterprises can now discover answers to questions they didn’t even know to ask and do so with data that is unlabeled.
